# Tricium Analyzer Contribution

This doc is intended for readers who are interested in building and deploying a
new Tricium Analyzer. A *Tricium Analyzer* can automatically produce
conveniently timed warnings and suggestions for changes under review in your
project, in the form of code review comments.

## Analyzer recipes

Analyzers are run by triggering LUCI builders; each builder is configured to run
some recipe. Tricium Analyzer recipes will call `api.tricium.emit_results` and
the Tricium service will post comments to the CL when the build is done.

See the
[tricium recipe module](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/infra/infra/+/master:recipes-py/recipe_modules/tricium/api.py).

Analyzer recipes can run third-party tools, or read files directly, or run any
number of pre-made common legacy analyzers.

## Legacy Analyzers

A **legacy analyzer**, also called a simple analyzer, takes some input (usually
`FILES`) and produces Tricium `RESULTS`. Results of Analyzers can be visible as
comments in code review. Such analyzers read input (files and metadata) from the
`-input` flag value, and write output to "tricium/data/results.json", relative
to the `-output` flag value. Each program is packaged and deployed using
[CIPD](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/infra/go/src/go.chromium.org/luci/cipd/README.md).

Example Analyzers implemented in Go are located in
[tricium/functions/](../functions/).

If you add a legacy analyzer, it must be run inside a recipe.

### Data types

The input and output types that Tricium Analyzers can take are defined in
[data.proto](../api/v1/data.proto); there are three main important types:

*   `GIT_FILE_DETAILS`: Just the information required to fetch the repository,
    but without any file contents. This doesn't include the actual contents of
    the file, but it does include the git repository URL and ref string as well
    as a list of files.
    [Example](../functions/git-file-isolator/test/tricium/data/git_file_details.json).
*   `FILES`: The list of files and file metadata, along with the actual contents
    of the files. The file metadata includes the relative path, how the file was
    changed, and whether it is binary or text. Many simple Analyzers that depend
    on just the text of the files changed in the CL can use this type. This
    input type does not include repository URL or git ref.
    [Example](../functions/spacey/test/tricium/data/files.json).
*   `RESULTS`: The result of an Analyzer, which is a list of comments to post,
    as well as (optionally) the platform that the results apply to. Results are
    generated
    [Example in a unit test](../functions/spellchecker/spellchecker_test.go); an
    example output can be generated by running `make test` in one of the
    analyzer directories like [../functions/spellchecker].

All legacy analyzers take FILES input, and all recipe analyzers take
GIT_FILE_DETAILS. All analyzers produce RESULTS.

### Linters

Third-party language-specific "linter" programs exist for many languages; to
adapt them for Tricium, we need to make a wrapper that will run the program and
produce Tricium `RESULTS`, such as [Pylint](../functions/pylint/).

If third-party dependencies are required, they should be fetched and included in
the CIPD package, but generally shouldn't be checked into source. The
dependencies may be fetched using a set-up script that is run at package-build
time. For example, the [ESLint](../functions/eslint/) Analyzer uses a script
called setup.py that is run before building and uploading a CIPD package.

### Simple regex-based checks

Some checks may also just read the input files and check for certain text
patterns. Examples include [Copyright](../functions/copyright/).

### Building

To build the Go Analyzers examples, you should first set up the infra Go
environment; see [The infra Go README.](../../../../README.md). After the
environment is set up, running `go build` in the directory should produce a
usable binary.

### Local testing

Besides writing unit tests, you can also test run your Analyzer locally, because
the Analyzer is just a program that reads from local files and writes to local
files. You can make an example test input directory, for example
[tricium/functions/spacey/test/](../functions/spacey/test/).

Then, you can build your program (if necessary) and run it. For Go programs,
this may be done by running `go build` and then invoking the resulting binary
with the arguments `-input` and `-output`.

### "End-to-End" testing

Analyzers are run in recipes, and changes to recipes can be tested before committing
using `led`. In order to test, you'll need (1) an example build of the analyzer builder
that you'll be changing and (2) an example change to run on.

You should be able to test by making a uncommitted change to an analyzer recipe, and
then running something like:

    led get-build <build-number> | \
        led edit-recipe-bundle | \
        led edit-cr-cl <example change patchset>` |
        led launch

See go/luci-how-to-led or `led help` for more information.

### Packaging with CIPD

Make sure you have the CIPD client installed; see
[installation instructions](https://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/install-depot-tools).
Add a `cipd.yaml` file to the root of your Analyzer's directory tree, e.g.
[hello/cipd.yaml](../functions/hello/cipd.yaml):

```
package: infra/tricium/function/hello
install_mode: symlink
data:
        - file: hello
```

Note that package should be `infra/tricium/functions/ANALYZER`, replacing
CamelCase (e.g. ClangTidy) with words separated with dashes, e.g. (clang-tidy).
The data section should list files to be included in the CIPD package; see
[cipd/client/cipd/local/pkgdef.go](https://github.com/luci/luci-go/blob/master/cipd/client/cipd/local/pkgdef.go#L35)
for details.

### Deploying with CIPD

Run the CIPD command line tool to create and tag the new release. If the CIPD
client complains about a lack of authentication, contact tricium-dev@google.com
to get added to the "tricium-contributors" group.

Uploading a new version of an Analyzer usually has two steps: uploading a new
instance and setting the ref "live" to that instance.

There is a convenience helper script [update.sh](../functions/update.sh) which
may be used to update Analyzers.

```
$ cipd create -pkg-def cipd.yaml
…
infra/tricium/function/hello:5b010cd78bc78252dda3e791cd6510c56111a990 was successfully registered
$ cipd set-ref infra/tricium/functions/hello -ref live -version 5b010cd78bc78252dda3e791cd6510c56111a990
[P26551 20:36:06.432 client.go:1004 I] cipd: setting ref of "infra/tricium/function/hello": "live" => "5b010cd78bc78252dda3e791cd6510c56111a990"
Packages:
  infra/tricium/function/hello:5b010cd78bc78252dda3e791cd6510c56111a990
```

NB! If your Analyzer contains compiled binaries, make sure that the target
platform for your built binaries are the same as the platform that will run the
Analyzer; for example, if it will run on Windows, you must build for Windows.
The place where the runtime platform is configured is in the Analyzer
definition; see the example config below, which specifies "UBUNTU".

### About CIPD packages

CIPD packages are basically zip files with a manifest file. They have an
instance ID which is a digest of the zip package, which may look like
`ZEBe-8SEx5Z3TQ_bby6Ok82WbLc71YPdLEAnGWjmHKsC`.

CIPD package instances have a package name and version. Versions can be the
instance ID, or a ref, such as "live". It's conventional for Tricium Analyzers
to use the "live" ref, which is set in the Analyzer definition in the config
file, as in the example below.

### Configure your Analyzer

To enable a legacy analyzer, you must change the relevant recipe.

To enable a new recipe analyzer or analyzer wrapper recipe, you must add an
entry to the project config, which will look like this:

```
# Analyzer definition.
functions {
  type: ANALYZER
  name: "Wrapper"
  needs: GIT_FILE_DETAILS
  provides: RESULTS
  owner: "someone@chromium.org"
  monorail_component: "Infra>Platform>Tricium>Analyzer"
  impls {
    runtime_platform: LINUX
    provides_for_platform: LINUX
    # The recipe determines the actual behavior, including what is run.
    recipe {
      project: "my-project"
      bucket: "try"
      builder: "tricium-analysis"
    }
    deadline: 900
  }
}
selections {
  function: "Wrapper"
  platform: LINUX  # Must match platform in definition.
}
repos {
  gerrit_project {
    host: "chromium-review.googlesource.com"
    project: "my/project"
    git_url: "https://chromium.googlesource.com/my-project"
  }
}
service_account: "tricium-prod@appspot.gserviceaccount.com"
```

### Staging and Release

Deploying to a limited environment:

*   In the project config for a test project connected to `tricium-dev` (e.g.
    [playground/gerrit-tricium](https://chromium.googlesource.com/playground/gerrit-tricium)),
    add the Analyzer definition and selection to the project config. The
    Analyzer definition and selection can both be put in the project config file
    for the playground repository.
*   Upload an example CL that should have comments.
*   If everything is configured correctly, the Gerrit page should show that
    there was a run, and clicking on the run link should show you that your
    Analyzer ran. For help with debugging, if you have questions, reach out to
    tricium-dev@google.com.

Releasing:

*   If the Analyzer is applicable to multiple projects, the definition can go in
    the `tricium-prod` service config (internal). A `tricium-prod.cfg` config
    file for your project must be created or updated to include a selection for
    your Analyzer. The example for chromium/src is at
    [//infra/config/tricium-prod.cfg](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/infra/config/tricium-prod.cfg).

## What makes a good Analyzer?

*   An Analyzer should not be too noisy; for example, you should aim for false
    positive rate of less than 10%. That is, messages should be "useful" at
    least 90% of the time. Categories of comments that have been found to be too
    noisy should be disabled or improved.
*   An Analyzer should be fast enough so that results can generally appear
    before the reviewer reviews the CL; for example, you should aim for results
    in under 10 minutes.
*   An Analyzer should produce clear and actionable comments.

A Tricium analyzer can take more time and include more checks than presubmit. It
should find some results when run on the whole codebase, but not too many so
that it's overwhelming.

## How to release a new legacy Analyzer version

If you have an Analyzer that's already running and configured, and you want to
release a new version, the following is a general process for release:

First, test locally; try both unit tests and a test-invocation on sample input.
Note, you can run Go unit tests by running `go test ./...`. Make sure you run
this on a machine that is binary-compatible with the production execution
environment.

Optionally, you could **try with a local devserver instance of Tricium**
(documentation pending; for now, Googlers can see the current doc at
go/tricium-playbook). The advantage of testing it out with a devserver instance
would be that you can change the configs without making any actual commits, by
changing [tricium/appengine/devcfg](../appengine/devcfg/).

After you're ready, upload it as described above in the "Deploy CIPD Package"
section, by running the `cipd` commands yourself or possibly by running
`update.sh my-analyzer` from [tricium/functions](../functions).

Then, again optionally, upload a new patchset or a new CL to confirm that it
works as expected.
