appengine/monorail/doc/deployment.md, before:

# Monorail Deployment

## Before your first deployment

Spinnaker is a platform that helps teams configure and manage application
deployment pipelines. We have a
[ChromeOps Spinnaker](http://go/chrome-infra-spinnaker) instance that holds
pipelines for several ChromeOps services, including Monorail.

IMPORTANT: In the event of an unexpected failure in a Spinnaker pipeline, it is
extremely important that the release engineer properly cleans up versions in the
Appengine console (e.g. delete bad versions and manual rollback to previous
version).

### Spinnaker Traffic Splitting

Spinnaker's traffic splitting, rollback, and cleanup systems rely heavily on the
assumption that the currently deployed version always has the highest version
number. During Rollbacks, Spinnaker will migrate traffic back to the second
highest version number and delete the highest version number. So, if the
previous deployed version was v013 and there was a v014 that was created but
somehow never properly deleted, and Spinnaker just created a v015, which it is
now trying to rollback, this means, spinnaker will migrate 100% traffic "back"
to v014, which might be a bad version, and delete v015. The same could happen
for traffic migrations. If a previous, good deployment is v013 with 100%
traffic, and there is a bad deployment at v014 that was never cleaned up, during
a new deployment, Spinnaker will have created v015 and begin traffic splitting
between v014 and v015, which means our users are either being sent to the bad
version or the new version.

If you are ever unsure about how you should handle a manual cleanup and
rollback, ping the [Monorail chat](http://chat/room/AAAACV9ZZ8k) and ask for
help.

Below are brief descriptions of all the pipelines that make up the Monorail
deployment process in Spinnaker.

#### Deploy Monorail

This is the starting point of the Monorail deployment process and should be
manually triggered by the Release Engineer.
![start monorail deployment](md_images/start-deploy-monorail.png) With the
default parameters, an empty "BUILD_ID" and "ENV" set to "dev", `Deploy
Monorail` triggers a Cloud Build of Monorail from HEAD. And when this pipeline
finishes, the `Deploy Dev (in use)` pipeline automatically begins.

##### Parameter Options

*   The "BUILD_ID" parameter can take the id of a previous Cloud Build found
    [here](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/cloud-build/builds?organizationId=433637338589&src=ac&project=chrome-infra-spinnaker).
    We can use this to rebuild older Monorail versions.
*   The "ENV" parameter can be set to "dev", "staging", or "prod" to
    automatically trigger `Deploy Dev (in use)`, `Deploy Staging`, or `Deploy
    Production` (respectively) with a successful finish of `Deploy Monorail`.

#### Deploy Dev (in use)

This pipeline handles deploying a new monorail-dev version and migrating traffic
to the newest version.

After a new version is created, but before traffic is migrated, there is a
"Continue?" stage that waits on manual judgement. The release engineer is
expected to do any testing in the newest version before confirming that the
pipeline should continue with traffic migration. If there are any issues, the
release engineer should select "Rollback", which triggers the `Rollback`
pipeline. If "Continue" is selected, spinnaker will immediately migrate 100%
traffic to to the newest version.
![manual judgement stage](md_images/manual-judgement-stage.png)
![continue options](md_images/continue-options.png)

The successful finish of this pipeline triggers two pipelines: `Cleanup` and
`Deploy Staging`.

#### Deploy Development

Note that this pipeline is similar to the above `Deploy Dev (in use)` pipeline.
This is for Prod Tech's experimental purposes. Please ignore this pipeline. This
cannot be triggered by `Deploy Monorail`.

#### Deploy Staging

This pipeline handles deploying a new monorail-staging version and migrating
traffic to the newest version.

Like `Deploy Dev (in use)` after a new version is created, there is a
"Continue?" stage that waits on manual judgement. The release engineer should
test the new version before letting the pipeline proceed to traffic migration.
If any issues are spotted, the release engineer should select "Rollback", to
trigger the `Rollback` pipeline.

Unlike `Deploy Dev (in use)`, after "Continue" is selected, spinnaker will
proceed with three separate stages of traffic splitting with a waiting period
between each traffic split.

The successful finish of this pipeline triggers two pipelines: `Cleanup` and
`Deploy Production`.

#### Deploy Production

This pipeline handles deploying a new monorail-prod version and migrating
traffic to the newest version.

This pipeline has the same set of stages as `Deploy Staging`. the successful
finish of this pipeline triggers the `Cleanup` pipeline.

#### Rollback

This pipeline handles migrating traffic back from the newest version to the
previous version and deleting the newest version. This pipeline is normally
triggered by the `Rollback` stage of the `Deploy Dev|Staging|Production`
pipelines and it only handles rolling back one of the applications, not all
three.

##### Parameter Options

*   "Stack" is a required parameter for this pipeline and can be one of "dev",
    "staging", or "prod". This determines which of monorail's three applications
    (monorail-dev, monorail-staging, monorail-prod) it should rollback. When
    `Rollback` is triggered by one of the above Deploy pipelines, the
    appropriate "Stack" value is passed. When the release engineer needs to
    manually trigger the `Rollback` pipeline they should make sure they are
    choosing the correct "Stack" to rollback.
    ![start rollback](md_images/start-rollback.png)
    ![rollback options](md_images/rollback-options.png)

#### Cleanup

This pipeline handles deleting the oldest version.

For more details read [go/monorail-deployments](go/monorail-deployments) and
[go/chrome-infra-appengine-deployments](go/chrome-infra-appengine-deployments]

TODO(jojwang): Currently, notifications are not working. See
[crbug/monorail/5964](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/monorail/issues/detail?id=5964).

### Notifications

Monorail's pipelines in Spinnaker have been configured to send notifications to
monorail-eng+spinnaker@google.com when:

1.  Any Monorail pipeline fails
1.  `Deploy Staging` requires manual judgement at the "Continue?" stage.
1.  `Deploy Production` requires manual judgement at the "Continue?" stage.

### Cron Jobs and Task

The pipelines currently do not update cron jobs or task queues. See
[crbug/monorail/5965](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/monorail/issues/detail?id=5965).

## Deploying a new version to an existing instance using Spinnaker

Manual testing steps are added during Workflow's weekly meetings. Confirm that
any changes that may have been merged between the meeting and deployment have
been added to the meeting notes with testing steps. If there are missing
changes, ping the CL owner to add testing instructions.

### Deployment steps

If any step below fails. Stop the deploy and ping
[Monorail chat](http://chat/room/AAAACV9ZZ8k).

1.  Prequalify
    1.  Check for signs of trouble
        1.  [go/cit-hangout](http://go/cit-hangout)
        1.  [Viceroy](http://go/monorail-prod-viceroy)
        1.  [go/devx-pages](http://go/devx-pages)
        1.  [GAE dashboard](https://console.cloud.google.com/appengine?project=monorail-prod&duration=PT1H)
        1.  [Error Reporting](http://console.cloud.google.com/errors?time=P1D&order=COUNT_DESC&resolution=OPEN&resolution=ACKNOWLEDGED&project=monorail-prod)
    1.  If there are any significant operational problems with Monorail or ChOps
        in general, halt deploy.
1.  Update Dev and Staging Schema
    1.  Check for changes since last deploy: tail -30
        schema/alter-table-log.txt`
    1.  Also copy and paste updates to the
        [master DB](http://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances/master-g2/overview?project=monorail-dev)
        in the `monorail-dev` project. Please be careful when pasting into SQL
        prompt.
    1.  Copy and paste the new changes into the
        [master DB](http://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances/master-g2/overview?project=monorail-staging)
        in staging.
1.  Start the deployment Pipeline in Spinnaker
    1.  Navigate to the Monorail Delivery page at
        [go/spinnaker-deploy-monorail](https://spinnaker-1.endpoints.chrome-infra-spinnaker.cloud.goog/#/applications/monorail/executions)
        in Spinnaker.
    1.  Identify the `Deploy Monorail` Pipeline and click "Start Manual
        Execution". "BUILD_ID" should be empty. "ENV" should be set to "dev".
1.  Confirm monorail-dev was successfully deployed (Pipeline: `Deploy Dev (in
    use)`, Stage: "Continue?")
    1.  If there are
        [any new tasks or cron jobs](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/q/status:merged+%28file:cron.yaml+OR+file:queue.yaml%29+file:monorail),
        run `gcloud app deploy queue.yaml cron.yaml --project monorail-dev`
        1. Note: you should ideally be synced to the same CL as the release.
    1.  Find the new version using the [appengine version console](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/appengine/versions?organizationId=433637338589&project=monorail-dev).
    1.  Visit popular/essential pages and confirm they are all accessible.
    1.  If everything looks good, choose "Continue" for this stage.
    1.  If there is an issue, choose "Rollback" for this stage.
1.  Test on Staging (Pipeline: `Deploy Staging`, Stage: "Continue?")
    1.  If there are any new tasks or cron jobs, run
        `gcloud app deploy queue.yaml cron.yaml --project monorail-staging`
    1.  For each commit since last deploy, verify affected functionality still
        works.
        1.  Test using a non-admin account, unless you're verifying
            admin-specific functionality.
        1.  If you rolled back a previous attempt, make sure you test any
            changes that might have landed in the mean time.
        1.  Test that email works by updating any issue with an owner and/or cc
            list and confirming that the email shows up in
            g/monorail-staging-emails with all the correct recipients.
    1.  If everything looks good, choose "Continue" for this stage.
    1.  If there is an issue, choose "Rollback" for this stage.
1.  Update Prod Schema
    1.  Repeat the same schema changes on the prod database.
    1.  If there are any new tasks or cron jobs, run `gcloud app deploy
        queue.yaml cron.yaml --project monorail-prod`
1.  Test on Prod (Pipeline: `Deploy Production`, Stage: "Continue?")
    1.  For each commit since last deploy, verify affected functionality still
        works. Test using a non-admin account, unless you're verifying
        admin-specific functionality.
    1.  Add a comment to an issue.
    1.  Enter a new issue and CC your personal account.
    1.  Verify that you got an email
    1.  Try doing a query that is not cached, then repeat it to test the cached
        case.
    1.  If everything looks good, choose "Continue" for this stage.
    1.  If there is an issue, choose "Rollback" for this stage.
1.  Monitor Viceroy and Error Reporting
    1.  Modest latency increases are normal in the first 10-20 minutes
    1.  Check
        [/p/chromium updates page](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/updates/list).
    1.  [Chromiumdash](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/release-manager?platform=Android),
        should work after deployment.
1.  Announce the Deployment.
    1.  Include the
        [build id](https://screenshot.googleplex.com/KvzoxHEs6Qy.png)
        of the Cloud Build used for this deployment.
    1.  Include the version numbers of the new staging and prod deployments.
        (They may be different).
    1.  Copy changes since last deploy: `git log --oneline .` (use `--before`
        and `--after` as needed).
    1.  If there were schema changes, copy and paste the commands at the bottom
        of the email
    1.  Use the subject line "Deployed Monorail to staging and prod with build
        id: <build id>"
    1.  Send the email to "monorail-eng@google.com" and
        "chrome-infra+monorail@google.com"
1.  Add a new row to the
    [Monorail Deployment Stats](http://go/monorail-deployment-stats) spreadsheet
    to help track deploys/followups/rollbacks. It is important to do this even
    if the deploy failed for some reason.

### Rolling back and other unexpected situations.

If issues are discovered after the "Continue?" stage and traffic migration has
already started: Cancel the execution and manually start the `Rollback`
pipeline. ![cancel executions](md_images/cancel-execution.png)

If issues are discovered during the monorail-staging or monorail-prod deployment
DO NOT forget to also run the `Rollback` pipeline for monorail-dev or
monorail-dev and monorail-staging, respectively.

If you are ever unsure on how to rollback or clean up unexpected Spinnaker
errors please ping the [Monorail chat](http://chat/room/AAAACV9ZZ8k) for help.

## Creating and deploying a new Monorail instance

1.  Create new GAE apps for production and staging.
1.  Configure GCP billing.
1.  Create new master DBs and 10 read replicas for prod and staging.
    1.  Set up IP address and configure admin password and allowed IP addr.
        [Instructions](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql-client#configure-instance-mysql).
    1.  Set up backups on master. The first backup must be created before you
        can configure replicas.
1.  Fork settings.py and configure every part of it, especially trusted domains
    and "all" email settings.
1.  You might want to also update `*/*_constants.py` files.
1.  Set up log saving to bigquery or something.
1.  Set up monitoring and alerts.
1.  Set up attachment storage in GCS.
1.  Set up spam data and train models.
1.  Fork and customize some of HTML in templates/framework/master-header.ezt,
    master-footer.ezt, and some CSS to give the instance a visually different
    appearance.
1.  Get From-address whitelisted so that the "View issue" link in Gmail/Inbox
    works.
1.  Set up a custom domain with SSL and get that configured into GAE. Make sure
    to have some kind of reminder system set up so that you know before cert
    expire.
1.  Configure the API. Details? Allowed clients are now configured through
    luci-config, so that is a whole other thing to set up. (Or, maybe decide not
    to offer any API access.)
1.  Gain permission to sync GGG user groups. Set up borgcron job to sync user
    groups. Configure that job to hit the API for your instance. (Or, maybe
    decide not to sync any user groups.)
1.  Monorail does not not access any internal APIs, so no whitelisting is
    required.
1.  For projects on code.google.com, coordinate with that team to set flags to
    do per-issue redirects from old project to new site. As each project is
    imported, set it's moved-to field.

Commit message:

[Monorail] Add additional info to deployment documentation
Change-Id: Ife1aebe5eb9fa6448ed3756dce1e4929e08f2fe1
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/infra/infra/+/1913478
Reviewed-by: Joanna Wang <jojwang@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Kevin Weng <kweng@google.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#27046}

appengine/monorail/doc/deployment.md, after:

# Monorail Deployment

## Before your first deployment

Spinnaker is a platform that helps teams configure and manage application
deployment pipelines. We have a
[ChromeOps Spinnaker](http://go/chrome-infra-spinnaker) instance that holds
pipelines for several ChromeOps services, including Monorail.

IMPORTANT: In the event of an unexpected failure in a Spinnaker pipeline, it is
extremely important that the release engineer properly cleans up versions in the
Appengine console (e.g. delete bad versions and manual rollback to previous
version).

### Spinnaker Traffic Splitting

Spinnaker's traffic splitting, rollback, and cleanup systems rely heavily on the
assumption that the currently deployed version always has the highest version
number. During Rollbacks, Spinnaker will migrate traffic back to the second
highest version number and delete the highest version number. So, if the
previous deployed version was v013 and there was a v014 that was created but
somehow never properly deleted, and Spinnaker just created a v015, which it is
now trying to rollback, this means, spinnaker will migrate 100% traffic "back"
to v014, which might be a bad version, and delete v015. The same could happen
for traffic migrations. If a previous, good deployment is v013 with 100%
traffic, and there is a bad deployment at v014 that was never cleaned up, during
a new deployment, Spinnaker will have created v015 and begin traffic splitting
between v014 and v015, which means our users are either being sent to the bad
version or the new version.

If you are ever unsure about how you should handle a manual cleanup and
rollback, ping the [Monorail chat](http://chat/room/AAAACV9ZZ8k) and ask for
help.

Below are brief descriptions of all the pipelines that make up the Monorail
deployment process in Spinnaker.

#### Deploy Monorail

This is the starting point of the Monorail deployment process and should be
manually triggered by the Release Engineer.
![start monorail deployment](md_images/start-deploy-monorail.png) With the
default parameters, an empty "BUILD_ID" and "ENV" set to "dev", `Deploy
Monorail` triggers a Cloud Build of Monorail from HEAD. And when this pipeline
finishes, the `Deploy Dev (in use)` pipeline automatically begins.

##### Parameter Options

*   The "BUILD_ID" parameter can take the id of a previous Cloud Build found
    [here](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/cloud-build/builds?organizationId=433637338589&src=ac&project=chrome-infra-spinnaker).
    We can use this to rebuild older Monorail versions.
*   The "ENV" parameter can be set to "dev", "staging", or "prod" to
    automatically trigger `Deploy Dev (in use)`, `Deploy Staging`, or `Deploy
    Production` (respectively) with a successful finish of `Deploy Monorail`.

#### Deploy Dev (in use)

This pipeline handles deploying a new monorail-dev version and migrating traffic
to the newest version.

After a new version is created, but before traffic is migrated, there is a
"Continue?" stage that waits on manual judgement. The release engineer is
expected to do any testing in the newest version before confirming that the
pipeline should continue with traffic migration. If there are any issues, the
release engineer should select "Rollback", which triggers the `Rollback`
pipeline. If "Continue" is selected, spinnaker will immediately migrate 100%
traffic to to the newest version.
![manual judgement stage](md_images/manual-judgement-stage.png)
![continue options](md_images/continue-options.png)

The successful finish of this pipeline triggers two pipelines: `Cleanup` and
`Deploy Staging`.

#### Deploy Development

Note that this pipeline is similar to the above `Deploy Dev (in use)` pipeline.
This is for Prod Tech's experimental purposes. Please ignore this pipeline. This
cannot be triggered by `Deploy Monorail`.

#### Deploy Staging

This pipeline handles deploying a new monorail-staging version and migrating
traffic to the newest version.

Like `Deploy Dev (in use)` after a new version is created, there is a
"Continue?" stage that waits on manual judgement. The release engineer should
test the new version before letting the pipeline proceed to traffic migration.
If any issues are spotted, the release engineer should select "Rollback", to
trigger the `Rollback` pipeline.

Unlike `Deploy Dev (in use)`, after "Continue" is selected, spinnaker will
proceed with three separate stages of traffic splitting with a waiting period
between each traffic split.

The successful finish of this pipeline triggers two pipelines: `Cleanup` and
`Deploy Production`.

#### Deploy Production

This pipeline handles deploying a new monorail-prod version and migrating
traffic to the newest version.

This pipeline has the same set of stages as `Deploy Staging`. the successful
finish of this pipeline triggers the `Cleanup` pipeline.

#### Rollback

This pipeline handles migrating traffic back from the newest version to the
previous version and deleting the newest version. This pipeline is normally
triggered by the `Rollback` stage of the `Deploy Dev|Staging|Production`
pipelines and it only handles rolling back one of the applications, not all
three.

##### Parameter Options

*   "Stack" is a required parameter for this pipeline and can be one of "dev",
    "staging", or "prod". This determines which of monorail's three applications
    (monorail-dev, monorail-staging, monorail-prod) it should rollback. When
    `Rollback` is triggered by one of the above Deploy pipelines, the
    appropriate "Stack" value is passed. When the release engineer needs to
    manually trigger the `Rollback` pipeline they should make sure they are
    choosing the correct "Stack" to rollback.
    ![start rollback](md_images/start-rollback.png)
    ![rollback options](md_images/rollback-options.png)

#### Cleanup

This pipeline handles deleting the oldest version.

For more details read [go/monorail-deployments](go/monorail-deployments) and
[go/chrome-infra-appengine-deployments](go/chrome-infra-appengine-deployments]

TODO(jojwang): Currently, notifications are not working. See
[crbug/monorail/5964](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/monorail/issues/detail?id=5964).

### Notifications

Monorail's pipelines in Spinnaker have been configured to send notifications to
monorail-eng+spinnaker@google.com when:

1.  Any Monorail pipeline fails
1.  `Deploy Staging` requires manual judgement at the "Continue?" stage.
1.  `Deploy Production` requires manual judgement at the "Continue?" stage.

### Cron Jobs and Task

The pipelines currently do not update cron jobs or task queues. See
[crbug/monorail/5965](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/monorail/issues/detail?id=5965).

## Deploying a new version to an existing instance using Spinnaker

Manual testing steps are added during Workflow's weekly meetings. Confirm that
any changes that may have been merged between the meeting and deployment have
been added to the meeting notes with testing steps. If there are missing
changes, ping the CL owner to add testing instructions.

### Deployment steps

If any step below fails. Stop the deploy and ping
[Monorail chat](http://chat/room/AAAACV9ZZ8k).

1.  Prequalify
    1.  Check for signs of trouble
        1.  [go/cit-hangout](http://go/cit-hangout)
        1.  [Viceroy](http://go/monorail-prod-viceroy)
        1.  [go/devx-pages](http://go/devx-pages)
        1.  [GAE dashboard](https://console.cloud.google.com/appengine?project=monorail-prod&duration=PT1H)
        1.  [Error Reporting](http://console.cloud.google.com/errors?time=P1D&order=COUNT_DESC&resolution=OPEN&resolution=ACKNOWLEDGED&project=monorail-prod)
    1.  If there are any significant operational problems with Monorail or ChOps
        in general, halt deploy.
1.  Understand what changes you are about to deploy
    1.  Go to last deployment's build log via [Spinnaker](http://go/spinnaker-deploy-monorail). ![navgiation to build log](md_images/nav-to-build-log.png)
    1.  Find the git sha of last deployment's build ![build log's git sha](md_images/build-log.png) In this example it's `bbaab65c91`
    1. Make sure you're on latest master and in `infra/appengine/monorail/` and run `git log --oneline <git_sha>..HEAD`. In the example above, that command would be `git log --oneline bbaab65c91..HEAD`
    1. Make sure list of commits matches the manually recorded list in the weekly meeting notes.
1.  Update Dev and Staging Schema
    1.  Check for changes since last deploy: `tail -30
        schema/alter-table-log.txt`
    1.  Also copy and paste updates to the
        [master DB](http://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances/master-g2/overview?project=monorail-dev)
        in the `monorail-dev` project. Please be careful when pasting into SQL
        prompt.
    1.  Copy and paste the new changes into the
        [master DB](http://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances/master-g2/overview?project=monorail-staging)
        in staging.
1.  Start the deployment Pipeline in Spinnaker
    1.  Navigate to the Monorail Delivery page at
        [go/spinnaker-deploy-monorail](https://spinnaker-1.endpoints.chrome-infra-spinnaker.cloud.goog/#/applications/monorail/executions)
        in Spinnaker.
    1.  Identify the `Deploy Monorail` Pipeline and click "Start Manual
        Execution". "BUILD_ID" should be empty. "ENV" should be set to "dev".
1.  Confirm monorail-dev was successfully deployed (Pipeline: `Deploy Dev (in
    use)`, Stage: "Continue?")
    1.  If there are
        [any new tasks or cron jobs](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/q/status:merged+%28file:cron.yaml+OR+file:queue.yaml%29+file:monorail),
        run `gcloud app deploy queue.yaml cron.yaml --project monorail-dev`
        1. Note: you should ideally be synced to the same CL as the release.
    1.  Find the new version using the [appengine version console](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/appengine/versions?organizationId=433637338589&project=monorail-dev).
    1.  Visit popular/essential pages and confirm they are all accessible.
    1.  If everything looks good, choose "Continue" for this stage.
    1.  If there is an issue, choose "Rollback" for this stage.
1.  Test on Staging (Pipeline: `Deploy Staging`, Stage: "Continue?")
    1.  If there are any new tasks or cron jobs, run
        `gcloud app deploy queue.yaml cron.yaml --project monorail-staging`
    1.  For each commit since last deploy, verify affected functionality still
        works.
        1.  Test using a non-admin account, unless you're verifying
            admin-specific functionality.
        1.  If you rolled back a previous attempt, make sure you test any
            changes that might have landed in the mean time.
        1.  Test that email works by updating any issue with an owner and/or cc
            list and confirming that the email shows up in
            g/monorail-staging-emails with all the correct recipients.
    1.  If everything looks good, choose "Continue" for this stage.
    1.  If there is an issue, choose "Rollback" for this stage.
1.  Update Prod Schema
    1.  Repeat the same schema changes on the prod database.
    1.  If there are any new tasks or cron jobs, run `gcloud app deploy
        queue.yaml cron.yaml --project monorail-prod`
1.  Test on Prod (Pipeline: `Deploy Production`, Stage: "Continue?")
    1.  For each commit since last deploy, verify affected functionality still
        works. Test using a non-admin account, unless you're verifying
        admin-specific functionality.
    1.  Add a comment to an issue.
    1.  Enter a new issue and CC your personal account.
    1.  Verify that you got an email
    1.  Try doing a query that is not cached, then repeat it to test the cached
        case.
    1.  If everything looks good, choose "Continue" for this stage.
    1.  If there is an issue, choose "Rollback" for this stage.
1.  Monitor Viceroy and Error Reporting
    1.  Modest latency increases are normal in the first 10-20 minutes
    1.  Check
        [/p/chromium updates page](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/updates/list).
    1.  [Chromiumdash](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/release-manager?platform=Android),
        should work after deployment.
1.  Announce the Deployment.
    1.  Include the
        [build id](https://screenshot.googleplex.com/KvzoxHEs6Qy.png)
        of the Cloud Build used for this deployment.
    1.  Include the version numbers of the new staging and prod deployments.
        (They may be different).
    1.  Include list of changes that went out (obtained from section 2 above), or via `git log --oneline .` (use `--before`
        and `--after` as needed).
    1.  If there were schema changes, copy and paste the commands at the bottom
        of the email
    1.  Use the subject line "Deployed Monorail to staging and prod with build
        id: <build id>"
    1.  Send the email to "monorail-eng@google.com" and
        "chrome-infra+monorail@google.com"
1.  Add a new row to the
    [Monorail Deployment Stats](http://go/monorail-deployment-stats) spreadsheet
    to help track deploys/followups/rollbacks. It is important to do this even
    if the deploy failed for some reason.

### Rolling back and other unexpected situations.

If issues are discovered after the "Continue?" stage and traffic migration has
already started: Cancel the execution and manually start the `Rollback`
pipeline. ![cancel executions](md_images/cancel-execution.png)

If issues are discovered during the monorail-staging or monorail-prod deployment
DO NOT forget to also run the `Rollback` pipeline for monorail-dev or
monorail-dev and monorail-staging, respectively.

If you are ever unsure on how to rollback or clean up unexpected Spinnaker
errors please ping the [Monorail chat](http://chat/room/AAAACV9ZZ8k) for help.

## Creating and deploying a new Monorail instance

1.  Create new GAE apps for production and staging.
1.  Configure GCP billing.
1.  Create new master DBs and 10 read replicas for prod and staging.
    1.  Set up IP address and configure admin password and allowed IP addr.
        [Instructions](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql-client#configure-instance-mysql).
    1.  Set up backups on master. The first backup must be created before you
        can configure replicas.
1.  Fork settings.py and configure every part of it, especially trusted domains
    and "all" email settings.
1.  You might want to also update `*/*_constants.py` files.
1.  Set up log saving to bigquery or something.
1.  Set up monitoring and alerts.
1.  Set up attachment storage in GCS.
1.  Set up spam data and train models.
1.  Fork and customize some of HTML in templates/framework/master-header.ezt,
    master-footer.ezt, and some CSS to give the instance a visually different
    appearance.
1.  Get From-address whitelisted so that the "View issue" link in Gmail/Inbox
    works.
1.  Set up a custom domain with SSL and get that configured into GAE. Make sure
    to have some kind of reminder system set up so that you know before cert
    expire.
1.  Configure the API. Details? Allowed clients are now configured through
    luci-config, so that is a whole other thing to set up. (Or, maybe decide not
    to offer any API access.)
1.  Gain permission to sync GGG user groups. Set up borgcron job to sync user
    groups. Configure that job to hit the API for your instance. (Or, maybe
    decide not to sync any user groups.)
1.  Monorail does not not access any internal APIs, so no whitelisting is
    required.
1.  For projects on code.google.com, coordinate with that team to set flags to
    do per-issue redirects from old project to new site. As each project is
    imported, set it's moved-to field.
